# A Machine Learning Model to Understand the Association of Design Smells with Role-Stereotypes
## Abstract 
While developing software systems, poor design and implementation choices can negatively affect the maintainability of software systems. There are recurring patterns of poorly designed (fragments of) software systems - these are referred to as design smells. Role-stereotypes indicate generic responsibilities that classes play in system design. Although the concepts of role-stereotypes and design smells are broadly dissimilar, both are significant contributors to the design and maintenance of software systems. This paper presents an exploratory approach based on a combination of statistical analysis and unsupervised learning methods to understand the relation between design smells with role-stereotypes and how this relationship varies across different desktop and mobile applications. The study was performed on a dataset consisting of twelve (12) Java projects mined from GitHub.  The findings indicate that three (3) out of six (6) role-stereotypes considered in this study are more prone to design smells. In addition, we found that design smells are more frequent in desktop applications than in mobile applications especially the *Service Provider* and *Information Holder* role-stereotypes. Based on unsupervised learning, it was observed that some pairs or groups of role-stereotypes are prone to similar types of design smells as compared to others. We believe that these relationships may be associated with the characteristic and collaborative properties between role-stereotypes. Therefore, this study provides important insights on this previously concealed behavior about the relation between design smells with role-stereotypes.
